A firewall is an absolute must have.
Properly configured wireless further protect your organization from [inaudible].
Now we're ready to take our security to
the next level and add intrusion detection to our arsenal.
We'll learn the difference between IDS and IPS.
We'll analyze the basic IDS rule, and craft our own.
The objectives for this section are,
what is an IDS?
The differences between IDS and IPS.
We'll break down an IDS signature and we'll craft our own.
Where does intrusion detection fall in our three component model of security?
It has detection for sure and IPS has response.
An IDS is an intrusion detection system.
It can be a hardware appliance or a virtual machine.
An IDS is a passive tool.
It only monitors and reports.
It is up to the security analysts to take action.
An IDS is generally placed at the edge of your network.
However, if you would also like to monitor internal traffic,
you can place inside the network as well.
An IDS operates based on signature or
rules and some are also heuristic or behavior-based.
An IPS is an intrusion prevention system that is active rather than passive.
It has the same basic architecture, rules,
and functions as an IDS,
but it will take action against the threat.
Anatomy of an IDS rule.
For this exercise, we'll be using Snort.
Snort is the most commonly used IDS.
Here is a sample snort rule to alert on RPC traffic to our IP address and port 111.
Alert tells us that when the rule fires,
it will send an alert to the administrator.
The first any tells us this rule applies to any source IP.
The second any indicates any source port will fire the alert.
The arrow indicates the direction of the traffic.
The destination IP is our example IP address.
The destination port is our tcp 111 port.
The rule options include the message
the administrator will receive as well as the sid number.
Reminder: in custom signatures,
your sid number must be one million or higher.
The first 999,999 are native to Snort.